[Docs] Kibana release notes for 9.2.0 (#238843)
elastic/kibana: docs/release-notes/index.md

* Adds support for encrypted headers in the Webhook connector [#233695]({{kib-pull}}233695).
* Automatically copies source data into the alerts-as-data documents for other {{es}} query rule types [#230010]({{kib-pull}}230010).
* You can now add filters to maintenance windows based on alert fields from all solutions, without needing to select a category first [#227888]({{kib-pull}}227888).

**Dashboards and Visualizations**:
* Adds the ability to configure index settings when importing geospatial files in Maps [#232308]({{kib-pull}}232308).
* Adds a new inline Markdown editor to edit your text while switching between **Editing** and **Preview** modes [#229191]({{kib-pull}}229191).
* Updates the toolbar popover for Metric charts, which is now called **Appearance** [#233992]({{kib-pull}}233992).
* Improves ES|QL suggestions logic when an {{esql}} visualization query changes [#231767]({{kib-pull}}231767).
* Adds a new **Add** menu to the toolbar that lets you populate your dashboard with visualizations, panels, sections, and controls [#230324]({{kib-pull}}230324).
* Improves perceived performance of dashboard flyouts [#226052]({{kib-pull}}226052).

> * Adds the **Select all** functionality for Options list controls [#221010]({{kib-pull}}221010).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Adds the ability to **Select all** to Options list controls [#221010]({{kib-pull}}221010).
```

**Data ingestion and Fleet**:
* Adds a toggle on the {{es}} output configuration page that grants agents permission to write to the `logs` and `logs.*` data streams [#233374]({{kib-pull}}233374).
* Completes OTel configuration pipelines with an exporter [#233090]({{kib-pull}}233090).
* Enables feature to auto-install content packages when data is ingested for datasets that match the datasets defined in the packages' `discovery` fields [#232668]({{kib-pull}}232668).

> * Adds support for indexing package knowledge base docs into the `.integration_knowledge` system index, allowing AI assistants used by integration developers to have greater context relevant to specific packages [#230107]({{kib-pull}}230107).

Reviewer 2: we decided to pull integrations knowledge support from 9.2 today (https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/239802), please remove this entry. thank you!

* Inference endpoints UI: Adds tech preview for rerank preconfig endpoint [#235222]({{kib-pull}}235222).
* Adds a default placeholder icon for future AI connectors [#235166]({{kib-pull}}235166).
* Inference endpoints UI: Adds tech preview for e5 preconfig endpoint [#234811]({{kib-pull}}234811).
* Allows you to choose which AI Assistant to show on non-solution pages and moves  the **AI Assistant visibility** setting to new **GenAI Settings** management page [#233727]({{kib-pull}}233727).
* Improves the layout for custom URLs list in the data frame analytics form [#232575]({{kib-pull}}232575).
* AI Connector/Inference endpoints creation UI: Adds icon for AI21 labs and Llama Stack [#232098]({{kib-pull}}232098).
* Ensures ELSER and E5 product docs are appropriately updated [#231884]({{kib-pull}}231884).
* Improves layout for custom URLs when creating a {{ml}} job [#231751]({{kib-pull}}231751).
* Adds a check to validate whether your newly uploaded index is searchable [#231614]({{kib-pull}}231614).
* Displays document count chart for ES|QL categorize queries [#231459]({{kib-pull}}231459).
* UX enhancements for editing fields in the AI Connector flyout [#231037]({{kib-pull}}231037).

> * AI Connector: Adds ability to filter providers by solution type [#228116]({{kib-pull}}228116).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

* Adds index searchable check to file upload [#231614]({{kib-pull}}231614).
* Displays document count chart for ES|QL categorize queries [#231459]({{kib-pull}}231459).
* UX enhancements for editing fields in the AI Connector flyout [#231037]({{kib-pull}}231037).
* AI Connector: Adds ability to filter providers by solution type [#228116]({{kib-pull}}228116).
* Updates threads_per_allocation values in VCU ranges for Serverless [#227940]({{kib-pull}}227940).
* Inference endpoints UI serverless: Enables adaptive allocations and allow user to set max allocations [#222726]({{kib-pull}}222726).

**Kibana platform and management**:
* Data views managed by Elastic are now clearly identified in the UI. You can no longer edit them and instead have to duplicate them to apply any changes while preserving the original data view [#223451]({{kib-pull}}223451).
* Adds an option to convert an index to a lookup index [#233998]({{kib-pull}}233998).
* The Console introduction tour is now disabled by default. You can manually start the tour at any time from the Help popover [#227978]({{kib-pull}}227978).
* Improves the rate-limiter UX [#227678]({{kib-pull}}227678).

**Elasticsearch solution**:

> * Agent Builder is now available in technical preview. Agent Builder is a set of capabilities for simplifying the development of AI agents based on your enterprise data. Learn more and get started from [this page](docs-content://solutions/search/agent-builder/get-started.md).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* [Agent Builder](docs-content://solutions/search/elastic-agent-builder.md) is now available in technical preview. Build custom agents and tools to explore your Elastic data using natural language, in real time or programmatically using MCP, A2A, or REST APIs. You must [enable the feature](docs-content://solutions/search/agent-builder/get-started.md#enable-agent-builder) to get started.

---
```

% ### Fixes [kibana-X.X.X-fixes]
% *

## 9.2.0 [kibana-9.2.0-release-notes]

### Features and enhancements [kibana-9.2.0-features-enhancements]

**Navigation and general interface**
* Enhanced navigation menu for spaces that use a solution view. The new navigation experience provides more workspace for your data with an improved collapsed mode, hover menus, and responsiveness.
* New Data Management menu. To ease the access to data-related management tasks, you can now find Fleet, Index Management, Integrations, and Ingest Pipelines in a dedicated menu, next to the Stack Management menu that previously hosted these pages.

> * Kibana is now available in German in Beta. To get started, set the locale in your kibana settings as follows: `i18n.locale: de-DE`. If you find any issues, please raise them on [Github](https://github.com/elastic/kibana/issues) [#236903]({{kib-pull}}236903).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* {{kib}} is now available in German in Beta. To get started, set the locale in your {{kib}} settings as follows: `i18n.locale: de-DE`. If you find any issues, please raise them on [Github](https://github.com/elastic/kibana/issues) [#236903]({{kib-pull}}236903).
```

* Revert incremental id and add multifield [#230278]({{kib-pull}}230278).
* Show image thumbnail [#226004]({{kib-pull}}226004).
* Adds a new Connector for Jira Service Management [#235408]({{kib-pull}}235408).
* Adds `xpack.actions.email.recipient_allowlist` kibana config [#220058]({{kib-pull}}220058).
* Adds OAuth2 Client Credentials authentication support to Kibana Webhook connectors [#218442]({{kib-pull}}218442).
* Allows to add additional fields to IBM resilient connector [#236144]({{kib-pull}}236144).
* Maintenance windows are now generally available [#233870]({{kib-pull}}233870).
* Adds support for encrypted headers in the Webhook connector [#233695]({{kib-pull}}233695).
* Automatically copy source data into the alerts-as-data documents for other ES Query rule types [#230010]({{kib-pull}}230010).
* You can now add filters to maintenance windows based on alert fields from all solutions, without needing to select a category first [#227888]({{kib-pull}}227888).

**Dashboards and Visualizations**:
* Adds the ability to configure index settings when importing geospatial files in Maps [#232308]({{kib-pull}}232308).

> * Adds a new Inline Markdown editor to edit your text while switching between **Editing** and **Preview** mode[#229191]({{kib-pull}}229191).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* Adds a new inline Markdown editor to edit your text while switching between **Editing** and **Preview** modes [#229191]({{kib-pull}}229191).
```

* Updates the toolbar popover for Metric charts, which is now called **Appearance**. [#233992]({{kib-pull}}233992).
* Improves ES|QL suggestions logic when an {{esql}} visualization query changes [#231767]({{kib-pull}}231767).

> * Adds a new **Add** menu to the toolbar that lets you populate your dashboard with visualizations, panels, sections, and controls.[#230324]({{kib-pull}}230324).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* Adds a new **Add** menu to the toolbar that lets you populate your dashboard with visualizations, panels, sections, and controls [#230324]({{kib-pull}}230324).
```

* Hides metrics data streams and packages on Logs Essentials projects [#227842]({{kib-pull}}227842).
* Adds a package rollback API [#226754]({{kib-pull}}226754).
* Adds support for the `keep` option in the Remove processor in ingest pipelines [#225638]({{kib-pull}}225638).
* Adds the **Add / remove tags** action on the agent details page [#225433]({{kib-pull}}225433).

**Discover**:
* You can now manage multiple data explorations simultaneously in Discover using tabs. Navigate between them seamlessly, duplicate them to build on previous queries, and save them into a single Discover session to retrieve your queries, filters, and data configurations untouched at a later time [#235150]({{kib-pull}}235150).
* You can now send long-running queries to run in the background. When a query runs in the background, you can perform other queries and tasks, then open it later from a new Background searches flyout to view cached results. This feature is in technical preview and disabled by default in this release. Check [this page](docs-content://explore-analyze/discover/background-search.md) for instructions [#236818]({{kib-pull}}236818).

> * Improves Discover’s {{esql}} LOOKUP JOIN experience with an index editor flyout supporting inline editing, CSV import, contextual actions based on privileges, and a query bar that opens Discover with a prefilled ES|QL query [#232686]({{kib-pull}}232686).

Author: ```suggestion
* Improves Discover’s {{esql}} LOOKUP JOIN experience with an index editor flyout supporting inline editing, and CSV import [#232686]({{kib-pull}}232686).
```

> * You can now add controls directly in Discover by typing variables (for example `?service` or `??host.name`) in your {{esql}} queries. Instead of having to maintain multiple similar queries, controls let you dynamically change parts of a single query using dropdowns, multi-selects, and date pickers with value suggestions [#229598]({{kib-pull}}229598).

Reviewer 6: Would probably be good for @stratoula to take a look at this one.

> * You can now add controls directly in Discover by typing variables (for example `?service` or `??host.name`) in your {{esql}} queries. Instead of having to maintain multiple similar queries, controls let you dynamically change parts of a single query using dropdowns, multi-selects, and date pickers with value suggestions [#229598]({{kib-pull}}229598).

Reviewer 7: Yes this is not 100% correct. 

> Instead of having to maintain multiple similar queries, controls let you dynamically change parts of a single query using dropdowns, multi-selects, and date pickers with value suggestions

This is the most confusing part. In controls you create an ES|QL variable (?service for values ??field for fields) and then you associate it with a dropdown. We don't have multi selects or date pickers

Can we change it in order to be closer to what we have? Otherwise it will be confusing. Also does it make sense to say something like: exactly as it works in dashboards (as it is the same feature)

* Adds related errors count and failure badge when exploring traces in Discover [#227413]({{kib-pull}}227413).
* Shows logs related to the current document when exploring Traces in Discover [#232784]({{kib-pull}}232784).
* Adds a warning when navigating away from Discover with unsaved changes [#225252]({{kib-pull}}225252).
* Adds the ability to view the currently active profiles, such as the detected solution and data source contexts, which determine Discover's context-aware experiences [#222999]({{kib-pull}}222999).
* Appends the casting only when necessary in Discover's {{esql}} mode filtering [#234748]({{kib-pull}}234748).

> * Removes the default limit of `10` added to the query base query when switching to {{esql}} mode in Discover [#234349]({{kib-pull}}234349).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* Removes the default limit of `10` added to the base query when switching to **{{esql}} mode** [#234349]({{kib-pull}}234349).
```

**{{esql}} editor**
* Extends the {{esql}} query history size to 50 KB, which represents between 200 to 300 queries instead of 20 [#232955]({{kib-pull}}232955).
* Adds support for lookup indices from remote clusters [#232907]({{kib-pull}}232907).
* The {{esql}} autocomplete feature has been extended so that fields from the selected lookup index are suggested when using the `LOOKUP JOIN` command. The same enhancement was applied to column suggestions when using the `ENRICH` command [#233221]({{kib-pull}}233221).
* Improves function validation [#230139]({{kib-pull}}230139).
* Adds support for expressions in the STATS command [#229513]({{kib-pull}}229513).
* Enhances GROK semantics extraction with Onigurama regex patterns [#229409]({{kib-pull}}229409).

> * Adds a "Prettify" button that automatically formats queries to make them more readable [#228159]({{kib-pull}}228159).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* Adds a **Prettify** button that formats queries to make them more readable [#228159]({{kib-pull}}228159).
```

Reviewer 5: I think it's confusing to call it "automatic" if the user has to press the button

% *

## 9.2.0 [kibana-9.2.0-release-notes]

### Features and enhancements [kibana-9.2.0-features-enhancements]

**Navigation and general interface**:
* Enhanced navigation menu for spaces that use a solution view. The new navigation experience provides more workspace for your data with an improved collapsed mode, hover menus, and responsiveness.
* New Data Management menu. For easier access to data-related management tasks, you can now find Fleet, Index Management, Integrations, and Ingest Pipelines in a dedicated menu next to the Stack Management menu that previously hosted these pages.
* {{kib}} is now available in German in Beta. To get started, set the locale in your {{kib}} settings as follows: `i18n.locale: de-DE`. If you find any issues, please raise them on [Github](https://github.com/elastic/kibana/issues) [#236903]({{kib-pull}}236903).
* Adds a table list view mode to the space selection screen for a more scalable design when a user has access to many spaces [#229046]({{kib-pull}}229046).

**Alerting**:
* Enable cases numerical id service [#238555]({{kib-pull}}238555).
* Create case analytics indexes per solution per space [#234125]({{kib-pull}}234125).

> * Revert incremental id and add multifield [#230278]({{kib-pull}}230278).

Author: I'll remove this from now, please suggest some text if we need to re-add it

> * Show image thumbnail [#226004]({{kib-pull}}226004).

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
* Show thumbnail image of attached case file [#226004]({{kib-pull}}226004).
```

* Adds a new Connector for Jira Service Management [#235408]({{kib-pull}}235408).
* Adds `xpack.actions.email.recipient_allowlist` kibana config [#220058]({{kib-pull}}220058).

> * Adds OAuth2 Client Credentials authentication support to Kibana Webhook connectors [#218442]({{kib-pull}}218442).

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
* Adds support for OAuth 2.0 authentication to the Webhook connector [#218442]({{kib-pull}}218442).
```

* Allows to add additional fields to IBM resilient connector [#236144]({{kib-pull}}236144).
* Maintenance windows are now generally available [#233870]({{kib-pull}}233870).
* Adds support for encrypted headers in the Webhook connector [#233695]({{kib-pull}}233695).

> * Automatically copy source data into the alerts-as-data documents for other ES Query rule types [#230010]({{kib-pull}}230010).

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
* Automatically copies source data into the alerts-as-data documents for other {{es}} query rule types [#230010]({{kib-pull}}230010).
```

* Improves function validation [#230139]({{kib-pull}}230139).
* Adds support for expressions in the STATS command [#229513]({{kib-pull}}229513).
* Enhances GROK semantics extraction with Onigurama regex patterns [#229409]({{kib-pull}}229409).
* Adds a **Prettify** button that formats queries to make them more readable [#228159]({{kib-pull}}228159).
* Displays function license requirements in the in-product {{esql}} help reference [#229961]({{kib-pull}}229961).

**Elastic Observability solution**:
For the Elastic Observability 9.2.0 release information, refer to [Elastic Observability Solution Release Notes](docs-content://release-notes/elastic-observability/index.md).

**Elastic Security solution**:
For the Elastic Security 9.2.0 release information, refer to [Elastic Security Solution Release Notes](docs-content://release-notes/elastic-security/index.md).

**Machine Learning**:
* Set the default retention period for the Logs anomaly detection configurations to 120 days [#231080]({{kib-pull}}231080).

> * Redesigns file upload UX [#232923]({{kib-pull}}232923).

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
* Redesigns the file upload UX and adds the ability to upload multiple files and existing indices [#232923]({{kib-pull}}232923).
```

* Adds an `AI` section into `Stack Management` [#227289]({{kib-pull}}227289).

> * AI Connector/Inference endpoints creation UI: Adds icon for Contextual AI [#236951]({{kib-pull}}236951).

Reviewer 8: @benironside would you mind reviewing the summary for this PR and the other ones in this section about the new AI inference connector?

* Inference endpoints UI: Adds tech preview for rerank preconfig endpoint [#235222]({{kib-pull}}235222).
* Adds a default placeholder icon for future AI connectors [#235166]({{kib-pull}}235166).
* Inference endpoints UI: Adds tech preview for e5 preconfig endpoint [#234811]({{kib-pull}}234811).
* Choose which AI Assistant to show in the Elastic Header & Move the `AI Assistant visibility` setting to `GenAI Settings` page [#233727]({{kib-pull}}233727).
* Data Frame Analytics: Improves layout for custom URLs list [#232575]({{kib-pull}}232575).
* AI Connector/Inference endpoints creation UI: Adds icon for AI21 labs and Llama Stack [#232098]({{kib-pull}}232098).

> * Adds new update_all endpoint for product docs management [#231884]({{kib-pull}}231884).

Reviewer 8: @qn895 can you check this revision and let me know if it needs to be tweaked at all?

```suggestion
* Ensures ELSER and E5 product docs are appropriately updated [#231884]({{kib-pull}}231884).
```

> * Anomaly Detection: Improves layout for custom URLs list [#231751]({{kib-pull}}231751).

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
* Improves layout for custom URLs when creating a {{ml}} job [#231751]({{kib-pull}}231751).
```

* Adds index searchable check to file upload [#231614]({{kib-pull}}231614).
* Displays document count chart for ES|QL categorize queries [#231459]({{kib-pull}}231459).
* UX enhancements for editing fields in the AI Connector flyout [#231037]({{kib-pull}}231037).
* AI Connector: Adds ability to filter providers by solution type [#228116]({{kib-pull}}228116).
* Updates threads_per_allocation values in VCU ranges for Serverless [#227940]({{kib-pull}}227940).

> * Inference endpoints UI serverless: Enables adaptive allocations and allow user to set max allocations [#222726]({{kib-pull}}222726).

Reviewer 8: Removing since this PR seems to be for Serverless only. 
cc: @alvarezmelissa87 

```suggestion
```

**Data ingestion and Fleet**:
* Fixes "package not found" error when skipping cloud onboarding for a prerelease package [#238629]({{kib-pull}}238629).

**Discover**:
* Fixes an issue with the data view creation flyout that could glitch when accessed from a separate page [#228749]({{kib-pull}}228749).

**{{esql}} editor**:
* Fixes controls' trigger across various commands [#236121]({{kib-pull}}236121).
* Fixes lookup index route failures on read permissions [#233282]({{kib-pull}}233282).
* Fixes an issue on Firefox where the {{esql}} inline editor could prevent scrolling [#228849]({{kib-pull}}228849).

**Elastic Observability solution**:
For the Elastic Observability 9.2.0 release information, refer to [Elastic Observability Solution Release Notes](docs-content://release-notes/elastic-observability/index.md).

**Elastic Security solution**:
For the Elastic Security 9.2.0 release information, refer to [Elastic Security Solution Release Notes](docs-content://release-notes/elastic-security/index.md).

**Machine Learning**:

> * Adds unique accessible labels for Show top field values buttons [#237972]({{kib-pull}}237972).

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
* Adds unique accessible labels for the **Show top field values** buttons on the **Log Rate Analysis** page [#237972]({{kib-pull}}237972).
```

* You can now add filters to maintenance windows based on alert fields from all solutions, without needing to select a category first [#227888]({{kib-pull}}227888).

**Dashboards and Visualizations**:
* Adds the ability to configure index settings when importing geospatial files in Maps [#232308]({{kib-pull}}232308).
* Adds a new Inline Markdown editor to edit your text while switching between **Editing** and **Preview** mode.[#229191]({{kib-pull}}229191).
* Updates the toolbar popover for Metric charts, which is now called **Appearance**. [#233992]({{kib-pull}}233992).
* Improves ES|QL suggestions logic when an {{esql}} visualization query changes [#231767]({{kib-pull}}231767).
* Adds a new **Add** menu to the toolbar.[#230324]({{kib-pull}}230324).
* Improves perceived performance of dashboard flyouts [#226052]({{kib-pull}}226052).
* Adds the **Select all** functionality for Options list controls [#221010]({{kib-pull}}221010).

**Data ingestion and Fleet**:
* Adds toggle that grants permission to write to `logs` datastream [#233374]({{kib-pull}}233374).
% !!TODO!! The above PR had a lengthy release note description:

> % Added `write to logs streams` toggle on outputs allowing the user to have greater control of whether agents that use an output have permission to write to the logs stream.

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
* Adds a toggle on the {{es}} output configuration page that grants agents permission to write to the `logs` data stream [#233374]({{kib-pull}}233374).
```

* Complete OTel configuration pipelines with an exporter [#233090]({{kib-pull}}233090).
* Enable feature flag `enableAutoInstallContentPackages` [#232668]({{kib-pull}}232668).
% !!TODO!! The above PR had a lengthy release note description:

> % Enable feature to auto install content packages where data is ingested for the matching datasets defined in the packages' discovery fields.

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
* Enables feature to auto-install content packages when data is ingested for datasets that match the datasets defined in the packages' `discovery` fields.
```

* Knowledge base integration support [#230107]({{kib-pull}}230107).
% !!TODO!! The above PR had a lengthy release note description:

> % Adds support for indexing package knowledge base docs into the .integration_knowledge system index, with per-document updates and automatic removal when a package is deleted. To be utilized by package developers allowing the AI assistants to have greater context relevant to particular packages.

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
* Adds support for indexing package knowledge base docs into the `.integration_knowledge` system index, allowing AI assistants used by integration developers to have greater context relevant to specific packages.
```

* Added MIGRATE to signed actions [#228566]({{kib-pull}}228566).
* Show agentless resources" toggle added to Fleet > Settings for debugging and diagnostics purposes [#237528]({{kib-pull}}237528).
* Update max version supported of package spec to 3.5 [#235942]({{kib-pull}}235942).

> * Enables installation support of alerting_rule_template kibana assets from packages [#235842]({{kib-pull}}235842).

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
* Enables the installation of `alerting_rule_template` {{kib}} assets from packages; also enables a background task for reporting agent status changes in {{fleet}} [#235842]({{kib-pull}}235842).
```

* Added new filter to only show agentless integrations [#235686]({{kib-pull}}235686).
* Adds support for installing alerting_rule_template assets from packages [#233533]({{kib-pull}}233533).
* Feat(fleet): add support for url variable type [#231062]({{kib-pull}}231062).
% !!TODO!! The above PR had a lengthy release note description:
% Adds support for a new url type variable in Fleet packages which provides better input validation of URLs in configurations.
* Feat(fleet): add support for duration variable type [#231027]({{kib-pull}}231027).
% !!TODO!! The above PR had a lengthy release note description:

> % Adds support for a new duration variable type in Fleet packages which provides better input validation of duration strings (e.g. 1h30m) in configurations.

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
* Adds support for a new `duration` variable type in {{fleet}} packages which provides better input validation of duration strings in configurations [#231027]({{kib-pull}}231027).
```
